# bitcoin_blockchain
This project is part of the master thesis "Detection of illicit Transactions on the Bitcoin-Blockchain - A machine learning approach"

## What it does:
With the code basis you are able to rework ```CSV generated files``` from the encrypted bitcoin blockchain. The CSV generated files are generated by [rusty-blockparser](https://github.com/gcarq/rusty-blockparser). 

The goal was to ```first generate a tx_in and tx_out files``` which contains all informations about a transaction and their incoming hashes and outcoming hashes. All is ```saved as parquet file```. Then you can ```generate the features``` and ```build the final dataset``` to do a machine learn task.

## Structure:
- csv_to_parquet.py
  In this file you generate from ```CSV-files``` the parquet files. Output is a tx_in and a tx_out file with all necessariy data points.
  For not computing all data (as a machine learning project this big would outrun my setup) I first compute all legal and illegal addresses. Then I sample the legal addresses. After that I generate a list with all txid's I have to work through. Finaly, I compute the tx_in and tx_out file.
- create_dataset.py
  Here I compute from the ```generated tx_in and tx_out``` all features and the final data set.
- data_exploration.ipynb
  After that the ```data``` I generated is ```explored``` (to understand null values, sanity check, describe and understand the data.
- modeling.py
  Is for shortlisting ML algorithms and do the ```hyperparametertuning```.
- evaluation.py
  Here the evaluation models and the final ensemble-stacking-model is ```build and test data``` is obtained.

## Install and Run this Project
Please install the environment2.yml file as follows:
```
conda env create -n ENVIRONMENTNAME -f environment2.yml
```
It is important to do the steps in the order of the structure (see above)

